---
layout: post
title: (En) nir2006linking
categories: Supp-of-Supp
description: 
keywords: 
mathjax: true
---

The protein is produced in bursts.

## Supplemental Mathematics

The paper is [1](https://journals.aps.org/prl/abstract/10.1103/PhysRevLett.97.168302).

- Derive Eq. (1). 

  Note that here the master equation is approximated as a Fokker-Planck equation; see [Stochastic Processes - Fokker-Planck equations](https://shi200005.github.io/2025/03/15/Stochastic-Processes/#the-fokker-planck-equation). $$\displaystyle\frac{\partial P(y,t)}{\partial t}=-\frac{\partial}{\partial y}\{a_1(y)P\}+\frac{1}{2}\frac{\partial^2}{\partial y^2}\{a_2(y)P\}$$, where $$\displaystyle a_\nu(y)=\int_{-\infty}^{\infty}r^\nu W(y;r)dr$$. 

  For degradation, one molecule dies per reaction -> $$\displaystyle r=-\frac{1}{V}$$. $$\displaystyle W(x;r)=\gamma_2n\delta(-\frac{1}{V})$$. 

  - $$\displaystyle a_1(x)=\int_{-\infty}^{\infty}(-\frac{1}{V})\left(\gamma_2n\delta(r-\frac{1}{V})\right)dr=-\gamma_2x$$ -> $$\displaystyle-\frac{\partial}{\partial x}\{a_1(x)P\}=\frac{\partial}{\partial x}[\gamma_2xp(x)]=\gamma_2(p+\frac{n}{V}\frac{\partial}{\partial x}p)$$
  - $$\displaystyle a_2(x)=\int_{-\infty}^{\infty}(-\frac{1}{V})^2\left(\gamma_2n\delta(r-\frac{1}{V})\right)dr=\gamma_2\frac{x}{V}$$ -> $$\displaystyle\frac{1}{2}\frac{\partial^2}{\partial x^2}\{a_2(x)P\}=\gamma_2(\frac{x}{2V}\frac{\partial^2}{\partial x^2}P+\frac{1}{V}\frac{\partial}{\partial x}P)$$...???

- Derive Eq. (4) & (8) see [note](https://shi200005.github.io/download_file/Nir2006Linking.pdf)

## Brief Summary

Model: protein is produced in bursts, where each time the produced number is exponentially distributed and uncorrelated with other burst. The degradation is first-order, where the dilution and degradation are considered together. Under resonable approximation, the steady-state protein distribution is a **gamma** distribution. 

To compare these results with numerical simulations, the authors simulated with the cell cycle with binomial partitioning segregation, but I don't get all the details from the text!

Then consider autoregulation - the burst rate depends on the current level of abundance. Then negative feedback -> distribution squeezed; potitive feedback -> gives rise to bistable distribution.

If a repressor $$R$$ regulates the production of $$x$$, the joint distribution

- In the limit were fluctuations in $$R$$ are fast compared with the rate of transcription of $$x$$: $$p(R,x)=p(R)p(x)$$ (extrinsic noise is negligible because it's averaged out);
- ...slow...: $$p(R,x)=p(R)p(x\vert R)$$ (every time $$R$$ changes, $$x$$ will relax to the corresponding new steady-state before $$R$$ changes again).

The analytical form shows that the effect of extrinsic noise in this case is assymetric, increasing $$p(x)$$ only for small value of $$x$$.

## References

1. Friedman, N., Cai, L., & Xie, X. S. (2006). Linking Stochastic Dynamics to Population Distribution: An Analytical Framework of Gene Expression. *Physical review letters*, *97*(16), 168302.



